---
layout: article-toc
---

## Workflows
As System administrators come and go and your Service Delivery evolves, the number of business processes configured in your instance will inevitably grow over time. This is one area where good house keeping is important, not just from a storage perspective, but also from an administrative standpoint. Business Processes can be managed via the Hornbill Administration interface in the business process section associated with the application e.g. Service Manager Hornbill Administration > Applications > Service Manager > Business Processes.

### Ensure your Business Processes are Reliable
Failed business processes can contribute to greater storage consumption. As part of business process execution, an event log is generated so it’s actions and responses can be reviewed in the event of an issue or error. An event log is generated for every business process which is running in the application.

Assuming the business process reaches a successful conclusion (i.e. a state of “Completed”) or is canceled (a state of “Canceled”) it’s logs are purged 7 days after it entered one of these states. Logs are only maintained for business process instances with a state of “in progress”, “suspended”, or “failed”. Business process that are “in progress” or “suspended” are still active, however those that are in a failed state have encountered problems and have stalled. Logs for failed processes are retained for much longer (3 months) so action should be taken to understand the reason for failure and address this in the process design so further business process instances can avoid failure. Processes that have already failed should be dealt with appropriately either by fixing or canceling the specific business process instance.

The detail of any active business process can be inspected via the Hornbill Administration interface in the business process section associated with the application (e.g. Service Manager). There is a button located to the top right of the list of bpm processes labeled “Manage Executed Processes” which presents a list of all the active business process instances.

The “Manage Executed Processes” area should be checked periodically to ensure processes are running reliably through to completion. Any failed processes should be investigated and the root caused addressed.Ensure your Business Processes are Reliable
Failed business processes can contribute to greater storage consumption. As part of business process execution, an event log is generated so it’s actions and responses can be reviewed in the event of an issue or error. An event log is generated for every business process which is running in the application.

Assuming the business process reaches a successful conclusion (i.e. a state of “Completed”) or is canceled (a state of “Canceled”) it’s logs are purged 7 days after it entered one of these states. Logs are only maintained for business process instances with a state of “in progress”, “suspended”, or “failed”. Business process that are “in progress” or “suspended” are still active, however those that are in a failed state have encountered problems and have stalled. Logs for failed processes are retained for much longer (3 months) so action should be taken to understand the reason for failure and address this in the process design so further business process instances can avoid failure. Processes that have already failed should be dealt with appropriately either by fixing or canceling the specific business process instance.

The detail of any active business process can be inspected via the Hornbill Administration interface in the business process section associated with the application (e.g. Service Manager). There is a button located to the top right of the list of bpm processes labeled “Manage Executed Processes” which presents a list of all the active business process instances.

The “Manage Executed Processes” area should be checked periodically to ensure processes are running reliably through to completion. Any failed processes should be investigated and the root caused addressed.

### Delete Old Process Designs
Deleting old processes that are no longer used will help manage the storage consumed. Processes can be deleted using the trash can icon located to the right hand side of the process. Processes can only be deleted if there are no active instances of the design running in the application e.g. in the case of service manager business processes run against requests.

### Design Efficiently
Many business process operations have the option to post a timeline update to a request as part of performing the operation. While an individual timeline update doesn't contribute a great deal to storage consumption, these will accumulate over time. Consider whether a timeline update as part of the business process operation is really necessary before enabling it. The timeline content generated by business process nodes can be controlled in the configuration of each node by setting the “System Timeline Update” and “Manual Timeline Update” parameters to “ignore”.

<!-- esp-config/storage/workflows>